---
layout: blog_post
title: 1. Comments
---

Well commented code is extremely important. Take time to describe components, how they work, their limitations, and the way they are constructed. Don't leave others in the team guessing as to the purpose of uncommon or non-obvious code.

Comment style should be simple and consistent within a single code base.

* Keep line-length to a sensible maximum, e.g., 80 columns.
* Make liberal use of comments to break CSS code into discrete sections.
* Use "sentence case" comments and consistent text indentation.

Tip: configure your editor to provide you with shortcuts to output agreed-upon comment patterns.
    
    /** 
     * =================================
     * Section Comment
     * =================================
     * 
     * Comment here
     * 
     */
       
    /**
     * Sub-Section Comment
     * =================================
     * 
     * Comment here
     * 
     */
          
    
    /** 
     * Short description
     */
    
    /* Basic */

Source: [Principles of writing consistent, idiomatic CSS by Nicolas Gallagher](https://github.com/necolas/idiomatic-css)


Source: [Doxygen and comment formatting conventions](http://drupal.org/node/1354)

### Table of contents

In a development team it's a good idea to add a a table of contents at the top of the main css file. This will act as a reference for the team of how the file is structured.

Include colour references, to ensure consistency in colour selection. If using a preprocessor like SASS, then use colour variables.

Example:

    /** 
     * =================================
     * Name of Theme - Style Sheet
     * =================================
     * 
     * version:   1.0
     * author:    rob lavender
     * email:     rob@systemseed.com
     * 
     * Colour Ref details:
     * 
     * #008A84 - Teal
     * #005a31 - dark green
     * #00734a - green
     * 
     * @todo - Need to be dealt with before live deployment
     * 
     *  Structure
     *  =================================
     * 
     * - Sitewide
     *   - Omega resets
     *     - Pager
     *     - Tables
     *   - Accessibility - Page style
     *   - Header
     *   - Footer
     *   - Typography
     *   - Menu main
     * 
     *
     */
