---
layout: blog_post
title: 3. Format (Overview)
---

* General Format
* Selectors
* Properties
* Exceptions and slight deviations
* Performance

## Quick Overview

**General Format:**

* Minimise the use of element selectors
* Do not use location based selectors
* Do not use ID's in CSS Selectors
* Use dashes to separate words

**Selectors:**

* Include a single space before the opening brace of a ruleset.
* Multiple selectors should each be on a single line, with no space after each comma.
* Selectors should be 4 or less levels deep

**Properties:**

* Include one declaration per line in a declaration block.
* For each declaration use one level of indentation, two spaces, not tabs.
* Include single space after the colon of a declaration. (This is also good practise when switching to using SASS the space is required.)
* Use lowercase and shorthand hex values, e.g., #aaa.
* Where allowed, avoid specifying units for zero-values, e.g., margin: 0.
* Include a space after each comma in comma-separated property or function values.
* End each  declaration with a semi-colon.
* Place the closing brace of a ruleset in the same column as the first character of the ruleset.
* Separate each ruleset by a blank line.
* Property order - Group similar properties

**Exceptions and slight deviations:**

* Large blocks of single declarations can use a slightly different, single-line format.
* Long, comma-separated property values - such as collections of gradients or shadows - can be arranged across multiple lines in an effort to improve readability and produce more useful diffs. 

**Performance:**

* Minimise HTTP requests
* Always Minimise CSS
